now what I've got in there is two pints
of homemade bone-stock and that's going
to be the basis of that French onion
soup which we had a look at at the
beginning of the program and I'll just
show you the other ingredients in this
pot here I've got one of the half pounds
of onions and these onions have been
cooking in two tablespoons of butter
and two tablespoons of oil and there was
one other ingredient and that was half a
teaspoon full of sugar and the sugar was
to help to brown the onions I hope you
can see they're nice and tinged and
brown at the edges and it's very
important for this soup to have them
really browned so the teaspoon of sugar
is a great help in that you also add two
cloves of garlic this is a very French
recipe as I said and you let them cook
and brown like that over a gentle heat
with the lid on for about 25 minutes and
when you've got them up to that stage
the next thing you do is make it very
French by adding half a pint which I've
got measured out here ready of dry white
wine and immediately your kitchen it's
going to smell of France when that goes
in
then
I'm going to add the stock which I've
got already measured into my casserole
next door
two pints of delicious beefy stock and
you're probably wondering at this stage
well can't I use a stock cube well you
can use a stock cube if you want to I
don't like the chemical flavors in stock
cubes I don't think they're very good
for the flavors of the food I think
they're contrary very often so it's
something I never noticed and in fact if
you don't have any stock and you want to
make onion soup then I give you
permission to use water I think that
would be better than stock cube or
moving over to this pan now we've got
the finished onion soup here we are and
now I'd like to show you a way to serve
it the one you saw at the beginning of
the program was in a great big terrine
covered with slices of bread and that's
very nice but I think it's also nice to
serve it in individual soup bowls and
for this you need to have heat proof
soup bowls which I've got here in front
of me and you put some bread in now the
bread this is called a large crouton and
this is just a slice of stale French
bread that's been baked on an oiled
baking sheet in the oven for about 25
minutes and you can make these in
advance and store them in an airtight
tin so you put your crouton in to the
soup bowl bring the soup over and ladle
it in on top of the bread
and when you do that the bread floats to
the surface as you can see there and the
next thing you do is add some grated
cheese and I've got some very special
cheese this is Swiss Gruyere cheese here
which is a little bit expensive but it
does melt beautifully and it has that
lovely stretchy quality but you can use
any other sort of cheese if you want to
and then you have the grill on preheated
to very high and you just put the soup
bowls under the grill until the cheese
is brown and bubbling and you serve it
like that with some French bread and
perhaps some French cheese to follow and
of course some wine and I think that's a
really nice meal for a cold winter
evening